how the heck do you even go viral on
Instagram and is it even still possible
in 2024 I have completed a study of
every single one of my viral videos and
I'm going to share with you the exact
ingredients that made these videos go
viral so if you want to blow up your
Instagram account reach millions of
people and grow your following keep
watching since reals first released in
August of 2020 they have been
unquestionably the fastest way to grow
on Instagram and compared to any other
kind of post or any other strategy for
growing reals have the most explosive
growth potential because reals have the
highest likelihood to go viral now while
it was definitely easier to go viral
back in 2021 it is definitely still
possible today and I have seen accounts
with over a million followers and
accounts with less than 100 followers
going viral in 2024 personally over the
last four years I have grown my
following from less than 50,000 to now
over 700,000 on Instagram and a large
part of my growth has been as a result
of a consistent flow of viral videos now
when I say a consistent flow that
doesn't mean that every one of my videos
goes viral nor does that mean that I can
predictably know every single time a
video is going to pop off there are
definitely anomalies and there are
definitely streaks where I'm hot or
streaks where I'm cold but every couple
months having a video blow up and reach
over a million people definitely gives a
nice influx or a nice wave of new
followers and new eyeballs on my account
now with all that being said and before
we even get into the strategies of
today's video I don't think think that
going viral should necessarily be your
goal ultimately going viral will kind of
be like winning the lottery it's
something that's not always predictable
and often times will happen when you
least expect it but it can have some
seriously crazy cool powerful
implications I believe that the majority
of your content should not be created
with virality in mind and if you are
trying to go viral with every single
post you're going to be disappointed
probably 99% of the time the majority of
your content should be focused on
prioritizing your audience rather than
the algorithm serving rather than
selling connecting adding value engaging
with your community and just generally
pouring into people on an individual
level rather than trying to reach the
masses but with that being said
obviously you clicked on this video for
a reason so I'm going to Spill the tea
as to how do you actually go viral on
Instagram now like I said I have grown
to over 700,000 followers in the last
few years and I have had 25 reals reach
over 1 million views that's the criteria
that I'm using to Define viral in this
video and for this specific study that I
just finished up but you are welcome to
Define viral however you choose often
times inside the insta clubhub we like
to use the term viral for me because I
believe it's more beneficial to create
your own definition of viral so that you
aren't comparing yourself to others
you're instead able to gauge your best
posts versus your own best posts so
maybe viral for you is 10,000 views
maybe it's a th000 views maybe it's
100,000 or maybe it's a million like me
and it's going to be different for every
account because we all have different
amounts of followers different
expectations and different past
Histories on Instagram like I said I've
had 25 videos reach over 1 million views
in the last four years and one video my
most viewed video actually is at
19.25 19 in a quarter almost 20 million
views now and that was actually just
posted a few months ago so from looking
at my 25 most viral posts on Instagram
what can we conclude what are our big
takeaways number one first and foremost
they are all real
in fact despite having more than 3,000
total posts on Instagram I haven't had a
single non-real reach a million people
I've had lots that have come close I've
had lots of photos and carousels that
have reached over 900,000 but none that
have reached that 1 million Mark another
way to say that is that every single one
of the 25 viral posts every single one
of my 25 posts that have reached 1
million people were all reals so that in
and of itself should give you an idea as
to what is more or less likely to go
viral on Instagram and really more or
less likely is all we can say nothing is
going to be a guarantee especially when
it comes to going viral there are photos
that go viral there are carousels that
go viral there are even Instagram
stories that sometimes go viral but
generally speaking according to the
averages according to what we see in our
students accounts in our members
accounts on Instagram every single day
and what we can see from this internal
study of my own Instagram account is
that on average reals are far more
likely to go viral than any other kind
of post so there you have it that's all
I'll see you next week no I'm I'm just
kidding of course that's like the basics
right reals are the most likely thing to
go viral but what actually makes a real
more or less likely to go viral well
just a few weeks ago I did an episode
talking about the new Instagram
algorithm and some of the things that
the algorithm is prioritizing or showing
favoritism towards right now and one of
those big key elements is shares share
worthy content is the kind of content
that on average is going to get the most
views because share worthy content is
most likely to be shared it's more
likely than any other kind of content
obviously and when a post gets shared on
average it gets 400 additional views so
the math is pretty simple if you get
just 10 shares on average that's 4,000
extra views but then that share cycle
can just keep spiraling because what if
10 out of the 4,000 new viewers also
shared well now you just repeat and you
have 4,000 additional viewers now you
have 20 shares and 8,000 extra views on
your reel so Shares are really the
secret sauce to getting your videos to
go viral it's the kind of Engagement
that on average is going to get you the
most additional views and thus increase
your likelihood of going viral now again
I went in depth into sharew worthy
content just a few weeks ago but to just
kind of briefly run through the five
categories of what is generally most
sharew Worthy on Instagram it's
generally something that is going to be
inspiring or motivational think quotes
think messages reminders kind of
heartfelt sort of thank yous those are
often times inspir iral motivational the
second kind of content that is highly
sharew Worthy on Instagram is what I
like to call a call to Arms it's
essentially asking people to all come
together and rally around supporting a
specific cause or movement uh the third
thing is relatable content that's pretty
self-explanatory The Fourth Kind of
share withy content is controversial
content or content that's kind of an
unpopular opinion and you'll see that
come up a few times in my specific study
of my viral content and then the fifth
kind of real that is highly sharew
Worthy is trending topics or breaking
news and that's another thing that comes
up time and time again in my most viral
posts again though if you want a more
in-depth explanation as to what is
sharew worthy how do you create sharew
worthy content and you kind of breaking
down each of those five different
categories I definitely recommend
checking out that episode from two weeks
ago but with all that being said let's
get into the actual breakdown of my 25
most viral reels my 25 reels that have
reached over 1 million people what did
they have in common stick around until
the end of today's episode because at
the very end I'm going to play for you
all 25 of those reals so you can just
have a look for yourself and see if
there's maybe something that stood out
to you that I may have missed in my own
analysis it's a really great practice to
get into of kind of studying other
people's content because I believe that
success leaves Clues and that's what
we're going through today the success of
my 25 most viral reels broken down what
Clues have they left behind number one
the first thing that 24 out of the 2
reals had 24 out of 25 that's a super
high percentage 24 out of 25 had text on
the screen the majority of them had
multiple pieces of text on the screen
whether it was some sort of title or
speech bubble above my head closed
captioning below or even just labels as
to who the different quote unquote
characters were in the real 24 out of 25
so every single one of these reals
except for one of them had text on the
screen and that might seem like a
no-brainer and for many of you that is a
no-brainer from any of you that totally
makes sense but I know there's a lot of
people who still don't put closed
captions on their reels they don't put
text on the screen and I think it's just
a great point to be reminded of right
here first and foremost that text on the
screen increases your likelihood of
going viral if I was to give you a bonus
tip or a pro tip when it comes to text
on the screen is that don't just have
one so don't just have closed captions
or just a label above your head have
multiple pieces of text have the label
above your head that is kind of setting
the scene or hooking in the audience but
then also include closed captions maybe
below the speaker's mouth those two
pieces of text are basically double the
amount of Engagement opportunities than
just having one piece of text so
consider adding multiple pieces of text
and that should improve your likelihood
of going viral now of course there are a
million different ingredients that you
could look at and you could consider
that might help or hurt you going viral
such as like what color was my shirt
what color was the text on the the
screen was this filmed on my phone or a
camera what time of day was it posted
was it scheduled or was it manually
posted there's like so many different
things that we could consider but
without getting too lost in the sauce
here here are the top 10 ingredients
that I found when I was looking at these
25 reels and these are things that I
think you could easily incorporate into
your own reels so coming in 10th place
with two appearances in my 25 reels so
two out of the 25 reels there were three
things that appeared in our tied for
10th Place one of them is memes memes
are super easy to use and I was a little
bit surprised that they didn't show up
more frequently in my most viral posts
but I also think it kind of makes sense
because I haven't started posting that
many memes until recently and the
majority of the memes that I am posting
are photo memes rather than video memes
but when I say memes I am not referring
to me lipsyncing an audio I am literally
referring to a video or a quick little
moment or a scene or even a photo that
was taken from a trending moment the
Olympics the office things like that and
then I'm just adding some text to relate
that scene or that clip to my Niche the
easiest example that I can think of that
you'll see at the end of today's episode
when you actually watch these reals is a
clip from the office where I took this
little snippet from a scene where
Michael Scott was talking I added the
text to relate the scene to my Niche and
then that was basically it so two out of
the the 25 most viral reels were memes
also two out of the 25 most viral memes
were breaking news now later we'll talk
more about trending topics and viral
audios and things like that but two of
them were specifically me breaking news
about something happening on Instagram
maybe there isn't necessarily that much
breaking news in your industry but maybe
there are ways that you could creatively
take things that are in the news and
that are headlines and relate them to
your Niche and then finally tied for
10th place with two appearances was what
we call listicles and listicles is not
just a funny word listicles means
basically lists of things giving
multiple ideas multiple recommendations
multiple tips or strategies just
basically running off a list most of
those lists not to get too far ahead of
ourselves were placed in the caption
rather than on the actual reel itself
but it is interesting that two out of my
25 most viral reels had a list all right
moving on now up the list in ninth place
with four appearances in my 25 most
viral
is original audios now that might give
you a clue as to some things that are
higher up on the list but four out of my
25 viral reels were me talking directly
to the camera I'm someone who posts a
video of myself talking directly to the
camera pretty much every single day on
Instagram and I have been doing that for
pretty much the last two or three years
so that means I've likely posted seven
or eight or maybe even 900 videos of
myself talking directly to the camera
with an original audio audio and only
four of them have gone viral in the last
4 years so I think that percentage is
relatively low and again I don't want to
spoil anything that's higher up on the
list but generally speaking original
audio seemed to be less important of an
ingredient all right we're moving on up
the list now and I think everything else
that I'm about to list is an actual
essential ingredient it's something that
will really make a difference in your
potential odds of going viral I think
number nine and number 10 are good
things to consider but if anything
number nine and number 10 might tell you
things that you want to avoid or do less
often whereas number eight through
number one are things that you should
definitely at least consider if you want
to go viral and number eight on the list
is including some sort of effect five
out of my 25 viral reels had some sort
of video effect placed on the real some
of them were on the more simple end of
the spectrum where it was just like
maybe slowly zooming in or zooming out
on my face or kind of tracking my body
movements some of them were much more
advanced effects or more dynamic or
engaging or whatever you want to call
them artistic effects like maybe my
entire body was on fire or maybe the
entire screen was kind of like dancing
around and shifting or maybe there was
some like crazy visual going on some
sort of like transition or something
five out of my 25 reels that have
reached over 1 million people had an
effect and I know you might be thinking
well Brock that's probably not that
important five out of 25 that's a pretty
low percentage and I know I also
literally just said that four out of 25
is a low percentage in terms of my
original audios but I think it's
important to also remember the context
the bigger picture here of how much of
these kinds of videos am I posting in
general to speak again about original
audios I'm posting hundreds of original
audios every single year and only four
of them have gone viral I don't use
effects very often in fact I rarely use
effects on my videos and so the fact
that five of my 25 viral videos had an
effect tells me that I should probably
use effects more often and that's a good
recommendation for you is to when
appropriate don't overdo it but when
appropriate include visual effects in
your videos yes my shirt just changed
that's because I realized that in going
through this list I forgot to list one
of the categories one of the ingredients
so this was filmed a few days later so I
hope you'll forgive me number seven on
the list of essential ingredients is
something that you might have expected
to be much higher up on the list
especially if you're used to the
stereotypical social media of 2022 or if
you are used to the kinds of things that
I often post on Instagram and it's
something that showed up in 6 and a half
I'll explain the half in just a minute
but 6 and a half out of my 25 viral
reels and that is dancing so let's
consider how frequently I dance on
Instagram quite a bit especially back in
the day like a year or two ago it seemed
like pretty much every single reel or
close to every single reel I was doing
some sort of hip thrust or twerk or
dance move and so the fact that only six
and a half of those dancing reels ended
up going viral shows me that dancing is
not essential it's not something that
you have to do so if you're someone who
doesn't want to dance you don't want to
learn the new step of choreography don't
worry you do not have to it's not
essential now the the0 five that I said
6 and A2 6.5 out of 25 the little half a
point comes from one of the reals that
went viral I wasn't dancing in it but
there was an effect that kind of made
the whole screen look like it was
wiggling and so because the whole screen
was wiggling it kind of made my body
look like I was dancing like it made me
look like I was like swinging my hips
back and forth so it wasn't technically
dancing but it kind of looked like
dancing so I counted that as half a
point towards dancing but the fact Still
Remains that I danced a ton and only six
or six and a half out of those dancing
reels actually ended up going viral and
so no you do not have to dance it is not
necessary you do not have to let your
freak flag fly you can I don't think
it's necessarily going to hurt you but
you don't have to moving on up sixth
place on my list of things that appeared
most frequently the biggest most
important ingredients in my viral reels
showed up seven times so all three of
these things that I'm about to name
showed up seven times out of my 25 viral
reels they are number one an existing
audio now I differentiated audios into
three categories original audios which
we already talked about which showed up
in four out of my 25 existing audios
where it's someone else talking or maybe
someone else singing or someone else's
sound bite and then I am either lipy
syncing it or reusing it and then the
third category of audio that I broke up
this list into is music so actually like
songs and that sort of thing not just
trending sound bites but actual songs so
again in sixth place with seven
appearances out of the top 25 was
existing audios me using an audio that
someone else has already used on
Instagram also tied for six place was
asking a question in the first sentence
of the caption I found this one very
interesting because it's something that
I don't do all the time I'm always
preaching that you should use a call to
action and we'll talk about calls to
action later but with this specific
category with this specific ingredient
I'm not saying that there was a call to
action there was just kind of like an
open-ended question I didn't even say
like answer below or answer in the
comments or let me know I literally just
asked an open-ended question like have
you tried this for yourself have you
thought of this what do you think who
can relate just like those kind of
open-ended questions I think they
started more genuine conversations and
thus kept people engaged with the real
for longer all right and then the third
ingredient that's in sixth place with
seven appearances out of my top 25 viral
reels I hope y'all can keep all this
math straight because I know it's a lot
is giving some sort of idea or even a
list of ideas in the real for me this
looked like giving people an idea as to
how to use the audio or an idea of what
their Hooks could be or an idea of ways
that they could get more views just
giving people a list of ideas it's not
necessarily tips or recommendations it's
literally just think about this if you
haven't thought of this before here's a
long list of ideas and that's another
thing that I should say is that most of
these lists of ideas weren't like one or
two most of the list of ideas were like
14 ideas or seven ideas or 25 ideas and
so I want you to think about what lists
of ideas could you offer in your reels
maybe if you do beginner rock climbing
tips you're going to give a list of like
gear that people should check out when
they're getting started maybe if you do
toxin-free living you're going to give
out healthy swaps that people could look
for at the supermarket I think the
reason that giving lists is so helpful
is unlike a strategy you're not telling
people what to do you're just kind of
like hey here's a bunch of different
things that you could try and also
there's no reason that people have to go
in order down the list of ideas like
unlike a seven-step guide where if you
get bored on step three you're not going
to read step four if you get bored on
idea number four out of seven well then
you're going to keep watching because
hey maybe idea number five is good or
maybe idea number six is something you
haven't considered before so with that
being said I want you to consider
including lists in your reels all right
we are now in the top five ingredients
that appeared most frequently in my 25
most viral reels and there's actually
two things that are tied for fifth place
with 11 uses in my top 25 and that is
number one a call to action and number
two a wait for it or a plot twist a call
to action is pretty self-explanatory
it's me saying something such as like
this post save this re share this with a
friend and interestingly enough there
wasn't One Singular call to action that
stood out or appeared more or less
frequently than the rest it seemed
pretty balanced amongst the 11
appearances between asking my audience
to comment to save to like or to share
but just the fact that I was telling
them to take an action inspired more
action thus creating more engagement and
thus helping the real reach more people
the more interesting ingredient that's
tied for fifth with 11 uses is this sort
of like plot twist or unexpected element
or like a wait for it type of moment I
think this is essentially a kind of hook
if I was to summarize it it's a kind of
hook that keeps people watching it makes
them like ooh what happens next or what
happens at the end of this reel or what
does this mean what's this person about
to say Theory of like plot twist element
keeps people on the edge of their seat
and so when they're scrolling they don't
know what the Reel is going to be about
or they don't know how it's going to
finish before they scroll away because
the average viewer decides in like a
second or two whether or not they're
going to keep watching The Reel so if in
that one to two seconds there's
something that kind of makes them
curious and makes them like wait what's
going to happen what's happening next
what's the unexpected element it can
kind of make them stick around um and
want to watch the entire reel in fourth
place with fort 14 appearances out of my
25 viral reels were again two
ingredients the first ingredient was a
short caption now I know a lot of you
are probably asking well Brock what
about long captions long captions showed
up in about 10 or 11 out of my viral
reels but short captions showed up more
frequently by showing up in 14 of the
viral reels and by short captions I mean
two sentences or less and so even though
there might be this thought out there
that a long caption takes longer to read
and thus keeps people paying attention
to the real for longer which improves
your watch time and while that is all
true on paper it's interesting that at
least in practice with my 25 most viral
reels the ones with shorter captions
were more likely to go viral than the
ones with long captions the second
ingredient that's tied for fourth place
is music again earlier I told you that
there were three categories of audio
that I kind of broke this list down into
original audios that I made myself
existing audios that were made by other
people and then I reused them and then
this third category of music using music
or songs was the number one audio-based
ingredient that affected whether or not
my real went viral and this is extra
interesting for me when I consider the
fact that the majority of my reals are
talking head original audio the second
kind of audio that I use most frequently
is using other people's existing audios
and the kind of audio that I use least
frequently is music or songs and so the
fact that that was the one that most
regularly went viral for me was
interesting and that tells me that in
the future I need to use more music in
my reels now unfortunately I can't go
back and check whether the audio was
trending at the time that I posted it
but I do have a decent memory as to
those reels that I posted and of the 14
that used music I would say roughly half
of them used a song that was trending at
that time like a song that was currently
on the charts or even had the little
arrow next to it and said that it was
trending but not all of them did so it's
not absolutely necessary that the music
that you're using is trending it's just
necessary that the music that you're
using fits the video but now alas with
all of that being said we are into the
top three the three biggest key
essential ingredients at least in my
viral videos and in third place with 16
appearances in my 25 viral reels was
jokes and I think that this will make
the most sense when we remember sharew
worthy content and that relatable
content is one of the most sharew worthy
things on all of in stagram relatable
jokes super easy to share super easy to
send to a friend to share on your story
to send in your group chat to tag
someone in the comments and those shares
equate to more views so 16 out of my 25
most viral reels had some sort of funny
component they weren't necessarily going
to be teaching something they weren't
going to be very educational or even
that quote unquote valuable for my
followers they were just kind of
something light-hearted and funny in
second place with 20 appearances out of
my 25 viral reels was a length of less
than 10 seconds so while it is true that
any length of reel can go viral and I
did have one real go viral that was well
over 20 seconds on average yes shorter
is better so when you are creating a
real if your goal is to go viral try to
keep it short less than 10 seconds is
really ideal here and again it's really
interesting to consider this when you
consider the fact that the majority of
the reels I post are longer than 10
seconds yet the majority of the ones
that went viral were less than 10
seconds all right and last but not least
number one the most common ingredient
amongst all of my viral videos that
showed up in 24 out of the 25 videos was
text on the screen and now before you
click away because you're like oh my
gosh did I really wait this whole time
just to hear that I need text on the
screen number one yes it is a good
reminder for all of us that hey you
should have some sort of text on the
screen in your reals but what I found
was that there wasn't just one piece of
text on average in my viral reels there
was three elements of text now what do I
mean by three elements of text I mean
number one there's some sort of title or
headline or label above the character's
head often times my head in the real
that was kind of giving context or
asking a question or setting the scene
or at least labeling what the video was
going to be about then there was a
second element of text that was below
the speaker's head that was usually the
closed caption or subtitles of what they
were saying and then there was a third
element of text which in many cases was
the call to action or in some cases was
just kind of a little blurb or a little
joke here or there or even just an emoji
that would pop up usually on one of the
sides of the screen and I think having
these multiple elements of text just
kept people engaged so that if people
were watching on mute they could still
watch The Reel and if someone was
watching for the first time there might
have been something they missed and so
they wanted to watch it a second time
maybe they missed the first two seconds
of the video itself because they were
busy reading the hook that I typed up
above my head so then they're going to
watch The Reel a second time to catch
the beginning part having text is
essential it's one of those key
ingredients in every single one of your
reels not just if you want them to go
viral but if you want them to be engaged
with at all again there are so many
different ingredients and different
factors that likely went into these 25
viral reels but in my opinion these were
the top 10 ingredients that showed up
most frequently but I really encourage
enourage you to watch these 25 reals
that I'm about to play for you and think
about why do you think they went viral
what common threads do you think led to
the success of each one of these videos
and then how can you incorporate those
ingredients into your own content
ultimately if you learn to dissect
people's content as you're scrolling
through your social media feed as you're
scrolling through Instagram or Tik Tok
or YouTube whatever if you can train
your brain to pick up on those key
elements that are keeping you engaged
and that are hooking you in in the first
place and that are making you swipe and
get bored then it will improve your own
skills as a content creator thus helping
you create better quality content that
is more likely to go viral well uh I
think my work here is done for today see
you
[Music]
tomorrow have you ever tried this no
well why don't you try
[Music]
it people are always like I could have
made that I could have made that yeah
well you didn't yo bro who got you
smiling like that like
[Music]
some days I am just on
fire why can I
say you send me real I send you real do
you know what that means that means we
are in a relationship my videos never go
viral I think
[Music]
thees some
I haven't made a re in a couple of days
Instagram says that I have to keep
making reals to grow so here's your real
tada
[Music]
[Applause]
uh I'm sorry I didn't order a glass of
your opinion oops it happened again it
is 400 p.m. I haven't done anything
productive baby breaking news on
Instagram there seems to be an ongoing
glitch that is causing a few things
number one a lot of people are unable to
access their Instagram app number two a
lot of people are being told that their
account has been disabled and because of
this it seems that number three a lot of
people's following seems to be
drastically dropping in just a matter of
minutes my own following personally
dropped over 6,000 followers in the last
24 hours and a lot of people have been
experiencing something very similar
Instagram has yet to make a public
announcement regarding what's going on
with the platform form they could be
cleaning up a lot of spam and fake
accounts which could be the reason why a
lot of our followings are dropping but a
lot of people who are not spammers and
who do not have fake accounts have also
been experiencing the inability to
access the app the inability to log in
and even a warning that their account
has been disabled I myself haven't even
been able to open my Instagram app for
the last 24 hours and I'm only posting
this because a member of my team is able
to open the app on their phone I'll do
my best to keep you updated as I learn
more information about what's going on
and please do me a favor by sharing this
post so that other people can find out
what's going on as well d i l l i g n
dly and it
means do I look like I just because
you're trash doesn't mean you can't do
great things it's called garbage can not
garbage cannot remember that
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you so much for watching today
best of luck going viral in the future
and I would love to hear from you in the
comments down below what key elements
did I miss or what ingredients did you
pick up on from my reels that you're
going to incorporate into your own
thanks for watching and as always happy
networking
[Music]